Section 1: Important words from the article and their translations with example sentences:

1. Ampel-Koalition (traffic light coalition) - Die Ampel-Koalition hat ihre Unstimmigkeiten beigelegt. (The traffic light coalition resolved its disagreements.)

2. Legalisierung (legalization) - Die geplante Legalisierung von Cannabis kommt voran. (The planned legalization of cannabis is progressing.)

3. Gesetz (law) - Das neue Gesetz tritt am 1. April in Kraft. (The new law comes into effect on April 1st.)

4. Verabschiedung (passing, adoption) - Das Gesetz wurde nach der Verabschiedung durch den Bundestag bekannt gegeben. (The law was announced after its passing by the Bundestag.)

5. Bundestag (Federal Diet) - Das Gesetz wurde vom Bundestag verabschiedet. (The law was passed by the Federal Diet.)

6. Anbau (cultivation) - Der Anbau von Cannabis wird über Vereine ermöglicht. (The cultivation of cannabis is made possible through associations.)

7. Konsum (consumption) - Der Konsum von Cannabis in kleinen Mengen soll für Erwachsene ab 18 Jahren nicht mehr strafbar sein. (The consumption of cannabis in small quantities should no longer be punishable for adults aged 18 and older.)

8. strafbar (punishable) - Der Besitz von Cannabis soll ab 18 Jahren nicht mehr strafbar sein. (The possession of cannabis should no longer be punishable for adults aged 18 and older.)

9. Vereine (associations) - Der Anbau und Kauf von Cannabis sollen über Vereine ermöglicht werden. (The cultivation and purchase of cannabis should be made possible through associations.)

10. Schwarzmarkt (black market) - Durch die Legalisierung von Cannabis soll der Schwarzmarkt zurückgedrängt werden. (The legalization of cannabis is intended to push back the black market.)

Section 2: Important grammatical structures used in the article and their interpretations with example sentences:

1. Konjunktiv II (subjunctive II) - Das Gesetz könne nach der Verabschiedung durch den Bundestag zum 1. April in Kraft treten. (The law could come into effect on April 1st after its passing by the Bundestag.)

2. Passiv (passive voice) - Das Gesetz soll verabschiedet werden. (The law is supposed to be passed.)

3. Modalverb (modal verb) - Die haben sich darauf geeinigt, dass man das regelmäßig evaluiert. (They agreed on regularly evaluating it.)

4. Partizip Perfekt (past participle) - Das Gesetz soll nach der Verabschiedung in Kraft getreten sein. (The law is supposed to have come into effect after its passing.)

5. Indirekte Rede (indirect speech) - Die Fraktionen von SPD, Grünen und FDP teilten mit, dass das Gesetz in Kraft treten könne. (The factions of SPD, Greens, and FDP announced that the law could come into effect.)

Section 3: Translation of the article into English:

The traffic light coalition has resolved its disagreements regarding the planned legalization of cannabis. The law could come into effect on April 1st after passing through the Bundestag, announced the factions of the SPD, Greens, and FDP. The plan is to legalize cannabis in parts. Possession and consumption in small quantities shall no longer be punishable for adults aged 18 and older. Cultivation and purchase shall be made possible through associations to push back the black market. Demjan von Osten in Berlin. So, what were the recent issues? There were disagreements within the government coalition, including politicians from the SPD. They had problems with how the regulations around schools and kindergartens should exactly look like. Apparently, this has now been resolved. And as it is said today, without significant changes to the text of the law. They agreed that it will be evaluated on a regular basis to verify if the goals are really being achieved. Therefore, the government coalition is praising a, I quote, "modern drug law" today. Does this mean that all concerns against the legalization of cannabis have been eliminated? Apparently, yes within the coalition, but outside it looks different. There is resistance in the federal states, including Bavaria. They have announced their own regulations to weaken the law. There is also a lot of criticism from associations, such as medical associations, pharmacy associations, but also from jurists and police unions criticizing the government's liberal drug policy. Thank you very much, Demian von Osten. Subtitles on behalf of ZDF, 2021.